---
layout: post
title: Git setup and command
date: 2019-12-16 00:00:00 +0000
description: Git setup and commands
img: # Add image post (optional)
tags: [git, github] # add tag
---
# What is Git?
Git is a distributed version-control system for tracking changes in source code during software development.It is designed for coordinating work among programmers, but it can be used to track changes in any set of files. Its goals include speed, data integrity, and support for distributed, non-linear workflows.

### How to setup git?
1. Generate SSH Key, Run below command and enter path and passphrase.
```shell
ssh-keygen -t rsa
```
2. Initiate git and configure user
```shell
git init
git config  --global user.name "name"	
git config  --global user.email "user@email.com"
```
3. Get git configuration list
```shell
git config --list
```
4. Update git configuration, In case you wish to update default editor
```shell
git config --global core.editor "/usr/bin/vim"
```
5. View git configuration
```shell
cat ~/.gitconfig
```
6. List .git directory contents
```shell
ls .git
```
HEAD - Refers to current branch we working on.   
Config -  Details about the developers user name and emaills.  
hooks - Hooks are customization scripts used by various Git commands.  
index - The current index file for the repository.  
info - Additional information about the repository is recorded in this directory.  
logs - Commits and changes logs.  
refs - References are stored in subdirectories of this directory.  

### Frequently used git commands
1. Download project from github
```shell
git clone <git repos>
example.  
git clone https://github.com/rajnathsah/AutoResumeUpload
```
2. Add new file to repository for commit
```shell
git add <file name/directory name>
```
3. Exclude files and directory from repository using .gitignore.
```shell
touch .gitignore
git add .gitignore
echo "build/*" >> .gitignore
```
4. Commit the changes
```shell
git commit -m "<comments for commit>"
```
5. Push local changes to github repository
* Push changes from all local branches to matching branches the origin remote.
```shell
git push origin
```
* Push changes from the local master branch to the remote master branch.
```shell
git push origin master
```
* Push changes from the local master branch to the remote staging branch if it exists.
```shell
git push origin master:staging
```
6. Pull/Update the changes from git repository to local
```shell
git pull
```
7. Fetch all branch for a git repo
```shell
git fetch --all
```
8. Checkout remote branch
```shell
git checkout <remote branch>
```
9. Create branch in git 
```shell
git branch <branch name>
```

Happy learning.
