---
title: Getting started with MySQL in WSL 2
date: 2020-08-08 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "How to install MySQL in Ubuntu 20.04 in WSL 2"
classes: # wide
img: # Add image post (optional)
tags: [MySQL, WSL, MySQL Workbench] # add tag
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---
# MySQL
MySQL is an open-source database management system. It uses a relational database and SQL (Structured Query Language) to manage its data.

# WSL 2
The Windows Subsystem for Linux lets developers run a GNU/Linux environment including most command-line tools, utilities, and applications directly on Windows, unmodified, without the overhead of a traditional virtual machine or dualboot setup.
You can install by follwoing instruction on [WSL 2](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10#update-to-wsl-2).

# Install MySQL on Ubuntu 20.04 inside WSL 2
To install MySQL, update the package index on Ubuntu with apt:
```shell
sudo apt update
```
Then install the default package:
```shell
sudo apt install mysql-server
```
Configure MySQL:
```
sudo mysql_secure_installation
```
It will prompt to set root user password and other options, You select default option or change based on your need.

# Adjustig MySQL user authentication
In case you wish to connect MySQL from external program or MySQL Workbench from window (we will start later). In order to use a password to connect to MySQL as root, you will need to switch its authentication method from auth_socket to mysql_native_password. To do this, open up the MySQL prompt from your terminal:
```shell
sudo mysql
```
Check user authentication method for each of MySQL user accounts with the following command:
```sql
SELECT user,authentication_string,plugin,host FROM mysql.user;
```
In output, you can see that the root user does in fact authenticate using the auth_socket plugin. 
To configure the root account to authenticate with a password, run the following ALTER USER command.  
```sql
ALTER USER 'root'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED WITH mysql_native_password BY 'password';
```
Then, run FLUSH PRIVILEGES which tells the server to reload the grant tables and put your new changes into effect:
```sql
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
```
Verify the authentication method for users again.
```sql
SELECT user,authentication_string,plugin,host FROM mysql.user;
```
Exit MySQL shell
```sql
exit
```

# Create new user
Login to MySQL shell using root
```shell
mysql -u root -p
```
Create new user with password
```sql
CREATE USER 'raj'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'password';
```
Grant priviledges to newly created user.
```sql
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'raj'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;
```
Exit MySQL shell.

# Start MySQL in WSL 2
Run following command in shell prompt
```shell
sudo /etc/init.d/mysql start
```

# Install MySQL Workbench
Download MySQL Workbench as per operating system.  
[MySQL Workbench](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/workbench/){: .btn .btn--success .btn--large}  
Installation is simple, follow the on screen steps and once done, connect to database using the user details.