---
title: Getting started with AirFlow on WSL
date: 2020-12-02 00:00:00 +0000
excerpt: "Setup AirFlow on WSL, configure database, executors and create static and dynamic workflow."
classes: # wide
tags: [AirFlow, Python]
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
---
## AirFlow
Apache Airflow is an open-source workflow management platform. It started at Airbnb in October 2014 as a solution to manage the company's increasingly complex workflows. Airflow helps you to create workflows using Python programming language and these workflows can be scheduled and monitored easily with it.

### Features of Airflow
*  Pure Python
*  Useful Ui
*  Robust Integrations
*  Easy to Use
*  Open Source

### Install Airflow on Ubuntu
Login to Ubuntu and install pip3 first in order to install airflow.
```shell
sudo apt-get -y install python3-pip
```
One pip3 is installed run below to install airflow.
```shell
pip3 install apache-airflow
```
Set airflow home path using
```shell
export AIRFLOW_HOME=~/airflow
```
Run airflow from terminal to create airflow folder and basic configuration file. Move to the airflow home folder, it would have airflow.cfg and other files. Verify airflow version using airflow version command.
```shell
airflow version
```
Run airflow db init to setup sqlite database with needed database tables.
```shell
airflow db init
```
If you are using airflow version 2.0 and above then you need to create user to access UI.
```shell
airflow users create     --role Admin     --username admin     --firstname <first name>     --lastname <last name>     --email <emailid>
```
With this, we are all set to start airflow webserver and login to ui using above created user to have a look at ui.
```shell
airflow webserver
```
If all goes well then you can access airflow admin home on [http://localhost:8080/home](http://localhost:8080/home). Login to ui using created user.  On the login page you can see lot of example dags loaded in in-active state. 


Note :- Some of the of the content are taken from [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_Airflow), [airflow](https://airflow.apache.org/).
